High in this video we're going to take a look at a pretty simple application of what we've been covering
in the section so far regarding arguments.
So what we want to do is we want to time how long it takes a function to run.
So if we call a function we'll have a function name and we've got the parameters the arguments for the
function that could be positional and or key would only arguments.
So we want to be able to time this so we want to write a function that can time it and we want our function
our timing function to be generic so it could work with any function and any parameters that are needed
for that function.
So let's take a look at how we might do something like that.
First thing is under the import the time module we'll need that for timings later on so we may as well
get that out of the way and let's go ahead and define a function called Tynemouth and that function
is going to then run and time the function we actually want to run.
So what is it going to need.
Well it's going to need the function itself and remember functions are objects in Python so we could
pass them to other functions.
We've seen that before.
And we also need though arguments for that function right that function isn't going to run by itself.
Most likely it might need arguments positional arguments and potentially even he would only arguments.
So we're going to need to collect them.
And that's pretty easy.
We can collect them using star arms and stock wands.
So if we do that this is go ahead and print out and let's print and let's print out Quantic And let's
just see what happens if I could time it were let's say the function that I want to run is the print
function.
So I just have to specify the function name right.
It's not making it callable or not doing this which would actually execute the function.
That's not what we want here.
I want the actual function itself.
So you just print.
And then the arguments to the function well what happens when I call print.
While I might want to print let's say one two and three and then what happens with the quads.
Well maybe I want to change the separator right in the print to be a space dash space.
Something like that.
I if I want I can even add the end and change them to maybe a space and three sounds OK.
So maybe that's how I want to run the print function.
I want to run it.
Passing this to it.
So here you can see that we scooped up 1 2 and 3 and 2 0.
And then 7 and ended up as keywords you know our parameters arguments that ended up in a dictionary.
So we're getting there we kind of have what we want but we're not actually executing the function which
is what we need to do.
So let's go ahead and change that.
Let's copy paste where you can just modify what you've got up there and not going to print out on quads
anymore.
We know where it's going to contain.
So what we want to do is we want to call the function effen and we want to pass it the arguments.
And the keyword arguments right.
That's how we would pass it.
But we've got to be a little careful here.
This isn't going to quite work right.
If we do this and we execute this over here let's see what we get.
Well we printed out the tuple one two three and we printed out this dictionary what's going on.
Well remember that ephah And in this case is really just print.
Well what if I print a tuple is that really the arguments.
No it's a tuple.
What if I print a dictionary.
Are these actual arguments to the print function.
No this is just the second positional right.
It's the same thing as if I'd said print one coming to comma three.
Right.
As my last positional elements so that tuple which I'm going to need to separate You're using the parentheses
to indicate this is the first element and then the second element was a dictionary which you know happens
to be our surp.
What did we make it a space.
Right.
And then we had and this well
which was a space and we started like that.
So yeah I'm sorry put the closing print.
So this is what we actually did right.
When we executed this we actually just executed this.
So what do we need to do.
Well we want these songs to become actual arguments so we need to unpack them right.
We need to basically do this or remember how we were unpacking lists and things like that when we were
then that we were then able to like when we did the merge of lists for example or dictionary merges
with the a star.
Right.
So we have to use a stout star to unpack the dictionary.
So now if we do this now you'll see what we get.
Now we get what we originally wanted it executed the print function with three positional parameters
one two and three and then it specified set an end as the separator and end for that.
And so we had the separator and we have the end of the line OK.
So much better.
That's what we want to do right.
We want to be able to just run the function from within this because now we can Tynemouth But there's
one additional tweet that I want to make.
I want to be able to specify when we run the time the function the number of times we want to do this.
And so I'm going to need to specify a keyword only arguments that's going to be called a rep and I'm
going to default it for maybe 1.
So by default it will run one time.
Now you think that this may affect Kwan's that we're going to send to FM but it won't because this isn't
named right keyword only argument that's going to be you know populated right.
So it's not going to get.
So if I have read in here what Rep equal to 5 it is not going to go into Kwan's it's going to go into
REPP so Kwan's is still going to be just the CEP in the end.
All right.
So that's kind of what we wanted.
Let's make sure that this works.
So now I'm going to say for I in range of repetition and we're just going to repeat the function that
many times.
Now let's see what happens we should get this printed out five times.
The only thing is I'm going to put a character or two I'm going to put a newline at the end.
Otherwise it's all going to end up on the same line.
I want to differentiate the lines.
So let's go ahead and run this and indeed we get that this thing was repeated five times.
Right.
So it's pretty neat.
We were able to essentially pass the parameters through from here to the end a function that we called
here so now let's go ahead and time things.
So I'll leave that up there I'll just copy paste and let's put the Times well.
Well the timing's all we need to do is basically use starts it equals time Dot perf calendar.
OK.
And then over here after the loop is finished we'll save time.
Got countered again so we'll look at our post count the value and then we'll just return the elapsed
time and minus that.
But of course we've done some repetition.
Someone to define to divide this by Rep.
This will give us kind of the average runtime.
So pretty good.
So we've got it now.
If we were to do this we could call you know time it or we could just basically rerun this.
Right.
And there we go.
It tells us that it executed in that amount of time so each function on average that's how long it took
to execute.
So let's go ahead and write some functions that actually take a little longer to run.
And let's see.
So what we're going to do we're going to create a function that is going to calculate that's going to
create a list essentially or calculate powers of n for k.
You don't enter the power of k k in some range.
So how are we going to do this.
Well let's go ahead and call it compute powers and I'm going to call it function number one because
are we going to write three different versions of the same function.
So what do we want to do.
We're going to want to calculate powers of N.
Right.
And then we want to have a start and an end.
So we want to say we want a standard end to the power of something and do the calculations up to enter
the power of something else which is going to be the start and the end.
And I want those to be key word only on gibbets.
So I'm going to put a stop to stop the positional is at that point then I'm going to make a stance start.
I'm going to default to one like you know if you don't specify what the start is it will start at once
it will start and end to the power one and then it will continue up to the end.
I'm not going to specify Dbl.
And this will force the caller to actually specify the and then so we get to calculate end to the power
of one.
And if end was 10 we'd go up to and to the bar 10.
So let's go ahead now and just use that so we're going to do a full loop.
So we're going to start with something pretty straightforward.
So we need to create an empty list and we're going to populate the powers of an inside that list.
So I think in range of what do we want.
What we want to stop at stop and end up and right.
So that's our range.
And then we say results Dock's append.
We're going to append PAOs of N to the power of I OK.
And then we're going to return the results.
So there's our function and we can call it right.
We can see what it does.
And let me actually call it compute not computed.
And let's go ahead and compute powers version 1.
Let's say we do powers of 2.
And we'll let it start at 1 by default at will and at maybe 5 and then we go we have 2 4 8 16 right.
So remember the end doesn't include end when we do our range.
So it's going to be up to but not including me.
And so we're going to use the same kind of way of doing things here.
OK.
So that works that's fine.
Now let's go ahead and do this again.
We're going to call it there compute powers to and and we'll use the exact same definitions for the
parameters.
But in this case we're going to use them using a list comprehension and again we don't know list comprehensions
we'll cover those in detail later on in the scores.
But for now we can use a list comprehension which is very simple to write.
We're going to want to return N to the power of I for I in range start comma and so this will be our
list comprehension.
Now we can run it.
Just make sure it runs and it does what is supposed to do.
And then we go to 4 8 16.
So that works as well.
And then lastly I'm going to copy paste this.
We're going to do a third volume but in this case we're going to use generators.
So this is going to be using generators.
Again I'm not familiar with generators don't work we'll cover those and a lot more detail later on in
the cause and I'm going to copy this.
And this is using a generator expression.
To be more exact.
So let's go ahead and put that in.
And all I need to do here is to use round brackets and sort of using square brackets which would be
a list comprehension.
So let's go ahead and do that and let's go ahead and run this.
Now you'll see that there's a slight difference.
When I run this right I don't actually get my list.
I get this generator object.
It's a little different.
And so to fix that I'm actually going to create a list out of it essentially and then show the list.
And so they would go to 4 16 will get into generate is in much more detail but I'm not going to spoil
the surprise quite yet.
The last thing we now need to do is to actually time those functions.
And so we're going to use up time at a function that we wrote.
Now what does time it require a way to requies the function that we want to run.
Well in this case it's going to be compute powers one.
And what do we want to compute.
Well we need to pass it and bright and.
And it's the same for compute 1 2 and 3 so we can use this look and look at this one.
So we need and which is a positional which is we're going to do powers of two.
We have then start and end.
Now we don't have to specify stealth because it defaults to 1 and that's why while we all want to stuff
but do you want to start somewhere else so maybe start at zero start at 1 if you really want to make
sure that it's 1 even though it's the default we'll start it at 0 and then we'll want to end and we're
going to run this so it takes actually a certain amount of time.
We're going to calculate up to powers of 20000.
And then lastly we need to put the repetition REPP equals and how many times do we want to repeat running
this function so we can time it and get an average of the timings.
So let's say we want to run this five times.
Now the older in which you specify the keyword arguments doesn't matter.
We could actually put it here right in the middle.
It doesn't matter the order doesn't matter.
OK so let's go ahead and run this and see what we get.
And we'll take a few seconds to run.
Here we go.
So on average it takes about 0.4 nine seconds to run this loop over here with an equal to two and start
with 0 and was 20000.
So now we can do the same thing and basically we can just copy paste this and we're going to time it
using two.
Now I also want to show you that even though this here is a positional argument technically we can pass
it as a named argument.
Let's see what happens when we do that works just fine.
What happened.
Well remember that even though we've specified it here as a named argument is a keyword argument what's
going on in here in the time it's right it's going to put it into KW arms right.
If we were to print out those when we pass a named variable let's say we say here.
Well we haven't named variables here.
Right.
So it's the same thing as saying let's say and equals one.
Let's just actually test the South End equals one.
And then what do we have we have start rappin and OK.
So let's go ahead and I can find it.
Let's say we have to start equals zero and equals 20 thousand.
And rep equals 5 K..
And I probably yeah I can't run this.
So let me redefine let's just redefine this very quickly and then we'll fix We'll fix that back up.
Let's just go ahead and print right rep and KW And I just want to show you what's actually happening.
So now you can see that the owner has nothing in it right then our rep was five.
So there we go.
Here's the rep of five and then querent contains the N.
Right.
But now when we call our function over here it's expecting an end.
So it's getting it's positional through a named argument and that's perfectly fine as well.
So it's just kind of bouncing around and that's fine.
So that's why it works.
Let's go ahead and redefine the hits make sure it's going to do what we want.
So basically yes I can specify any call to two this way.
Right.
And here we get approximately the same time that it took 0.4 9.
And so lastly let's go ahead and run this with the third function that we had and that runs a whole
lot faster.
One point nine times 10 to the negative six seconds.
Right.
As opposed to half a second.
So this is very very fast.
But before you go and start thinking oh I'm going to use generators for everything.
I'm kind of you know tricking you a little bit and we'll see when we get to generators later on in the
course.
But a generator doesn't actually generate you know the list it generates a generator.
A generator expression like we have here creates a generator and generators don't actually compute their
contents.
They compute them one at a time as they are being requested which is why when we did this and actually
let me just show you outside of that let's go ahead and write a generator expression here.
So we'll say eight equals let's say two to the power of I for high in range five.
So it'll go from zero to four and we'll take a look at what we get.
So now if we print a lot we don't get a list.
We get this generator object and the generator object can actually calculate everything.
If we want to get the list if we want to get the generator to calculate everything and give it back
to us in a list we can do so by just using the list constructor and passing the generator.
Again we'll cover this in a lot of detail later on in the schools.
But now if we do this of course added to the power of one will does get to.
Right.
And that sort of work correctly.
Let's do that again.
Right.
And now we'll get powers of 2 2 0 1 2 3 and 4 as the powers of 2.
So that's why this looks like it's runs very fast.
It's because it didn't actually do this calculation here.
Right.
It just returned the generator.
It created this generator but didn't actually evaluate anything.
Now if we were to here instead of returning the generator if we want to then do the list of the generator.
Right now in this case I wouldn't need to say list anymore because it is returning a list I get the
2 4 8 16 and now if we were to time this then we go ahead and copy paste it here and then you'll see
that now it actually starts using more times than 0.4.
So again it's in line with the other methods.
But the advantage of generators is that if you don't use up all the values then it doesn't spend the
time calculating them and you're not necessarily spending the time up front calculating everything.
So you know maybe it makes your code maybe a little more responsive your program will more responsive.
Whatever the case may be there are use cases for generators.
And we'll get to that when we get to that section.
All right so that's it for an example of how we can use it all star and keyword only arguments and the
Stockwell's to pass things around.
So it's a pretty neat way.
Python is very very flexible when it comes to that.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.